### Course Description

This course includes the study of the computer language and programming topics
begun in CSC 115.  It also covers tools and resources available in the larger 
“eco-system” of the language under study, and introduces students to development tools, 
including version control systems.

### When Offered

Spring semesters.

### More Info

We'll use R to continue the study begun in CSC 115 study of basic progrmming 
concepts, and we'll look at some more data anlysis applications.

We'll also get a serious introduction to *version control*, a practice that
helps software developers keep track of changes to complex applications and that
allows programmers to collaborate with each other more effectively.  We'll learn
the version-control language known as [git](https://git-scm.com/), and we'll
put up our first remote software repositories on [GitHub](https://github.com/).

We will even make our first forays into web design.  The present-day R programming
environment includes a number fo tools that make it easy to build R-based websites 
and blogs, and to have them hosted for free on GitHub.  You'll design your first
sites in this course, and begin using your personal blog to write about problems
in programming or to expound on ideas from courses in your own major.

We'll continue to work on the online server, but you are going to have to 
learn how to install some software on other computers, so starting with 
CSC 215 a laptop in good working order will be required for every class in the
Computer Science program, except maybe for CSC 303.