### Course Description

This course focuses on data analysis in settings where the data is so 
large, dispersed or messy that machine-processing is required to gather, 
clean and transform it into forms suitable for analysis.  We also study 
computer-based techniques for the analysis of such data, including machine 
data visualization and machine-learning.  Finally we consider how the 
practice of reproducible research and the development of interactive web-based
applications can enhance communication of the results of data analysis. 

### Prerequisites:

MAT111 or CSC115 or PSY211 or permission of the instructor.

### When Offered

Fall semesters.

### More Information

You'll be a data-Ninja after you finish this course! For the sake of those who
are coming from non-programming backgrounds (MAT 111 or PSY 211), we'll begin
a gentle, easygoing introduction to R, which you will have learned quite well
in CSC 115.  We will look more closely, though, at extensions to R that allow people
to assemble, clean and process large and messy data sets: this will be new to you.

We do a lot more than just make tables and graphs, though.  We'll get a bit into
the field of machine-learning, and see how to train the computer to make astonishingly
accurate predictions using such things as classification and regression trees, and
even random forests.  This brings you to the beginnings of the influential new
field known as *data science*.

Data analysis is just about coding, it's also about good communication of the reults
of our analyses.  Hence we will also pay attention to good writing in data analysis, and we
will get acquainted with tools like [R Markdown](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/) that
make it possible to generate data analysis reports in a transparent way.

As time permits, we'll learn to write simple 
[Shiny](https://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny/) applications.  These applications
can be deployed online to allow non-technical people to do some of the 
data analysis that you accomplish through programming.

For anyone thinking about graduate school in the sciences, social science, or who
is planning to go into business, CSC 303 may turn out to be one of the most
useful courses you take at Georgetown.