### Course Description

The study of one or more web programming languages, and the application of 
these languages in front-end and back-end web development.

### Prerequisites:

CSC 323.  However, as ART 323 is similar to CSC 323 and is the web design 
course that is usually offered at Georgetown, ART 323 will be accepted in 
place of CSC 323.

CSC and Art 323 cover the basics of HTML and CSS that permit
Javascript to be used in the browser.  However, we review HTML/CSS to some extent in CSC 324.  Accordingly students who have demonstrated a strong aptitude for ptogramming by doing well in CSC 115 may appeal to the Computer Science Program Director to have the 323 prerequisite waived.

### When Offered

Fall semesters.

### More Information

JavaScript, the language that lives in your browser and makes websites interactive
and fun, is the primary subject of this course.  We'll spend most of the semester
learning JavaScript as a programming language, first in the [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) environment and then in 
to the browser, where we will learn how to add exciting interactive features to our websites.

We'll spend some time on static-site generators.  These are great tools for quickly
developing many types of websites.  Static sites serve up quickly, and can be hosted
on the web quite cheaply---even for free!  Each student will create his or her own website using the popular static-site generator known as [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/).

Another likely focus of the course is [D3](https://d3js.org/), a JavaScript library for interactive data visualization.  This focus renders the course useful for students who are studying computer science primarily with data analysis applications in mind.

You don't have to wait for 324 to start learning JavaScript!  Our textbook is available online free:  [*Eloquent JavaScript, 3rd Edition*](https://eloquentjavascript.net/).  You can even play with the code examples and work the exercises directly in your browser.