### Course Description

This course introduces database concepts necessary to inform the choice of a
database system for applications, and to construct and use a database.  At least one type of database system is studied, and is used in both data 
analysis and web-app development settings.

### Prerequisites:

CSC 303.

### When Offered

Spring semesters.

### More Information

At the beginning of the course we'll continue our study of machine leanring techniques that we began in CSC 303, and then look at interactive data graphics and the [Shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/) framework for web-app development in R.

Next we'll turn to databases themseleves.  We'll study the basic 
principles of relational databases and study SQL (Structured Query Language), 
which is used for managing databases and for extracting information
from them.  We will practice with MySQL, a widely-used relational 
database system.

In the process we'll be applying databases in the
setting of data analysis, writing R programs that pull data from a 
database and create numerical and graphical summaries of that data.  We'll also circle back to  Shiny and write web-applications that 
permit non-technical users to query a database over the Internet.

The primary emphasis of the course is using existing databases and connecting them with data analysis tools in R, but we will also take a good look at principles of design for relational databases.  In fact it will be a project for every student to design a database and host it on a cloud-based Linux server.

The textbooks for the course will be:

* [Modern Data Science with R](https://mdsr-book.github.io/), which you already have from CSC 303;
* [Database Design for Mere Mortals](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/database-design-for/9780133122282/).